app/README.md, before:

# Streamlit Deployment App

This directory contains the Streamlit web application for the citation prediction tool.

## Purpose

Deploy trained models as an interactive web application that allows AUB to:
- Upload new publication data
- Get citation predictions in real-time
- Visualize prediction confidence and feature contributions
- Compare multiple publications
- Track predictions over time

## Files

- `main.py`: Main Streamlit application entry point (landing page)
- `pages/`: Multi-page app structure
  - `01_🎯_Single_Prediction.py`: Single prediction interface
  - `02_📁_Batch_Prediction.py`: Batch prediction with CSV upload
  - `03_📈_Model_Performance.py`: Model metrics and evaluation

## Features

### 1. Single Publication Prediction
- Input publication metadata manually or via form
- Get instant citation prediction (classification + regression)
- View confidence scores and prediction intervals
- See feature contributions to prediction

### 2. Batch Prediction
- Upload CSV file with multiple publications
- Process batch predictions
- Download results with predictions
- View summary statistics

### 3. Model Information
- Display model performance metrics
- Show training/validation curves
- Compare different models
- View temporal validation results

### 4. Feature Importance
- Interactive feature importance plots
- Filter by feature categories
- Compare importance across models
- SHAP value visualizations

## Prerequisites

Before running the app, you need to have trained models and feature artifacts:

1. **Trained Models** (from notebooks 30-31):
   - `models/classification/logistic_regression.pkl`
   - `models/classification/random_forest.pkl`
   - `models/classification/xgboost.pkl`
   - `models/classification/lightgbm.pkl`
   - `models/regression/random_forest.pkl`
   - `models/regression/xgboost.pkl`
   - `models/regression/lightgbm.pkl`

2. **Feature Artifacts** (from notebooks 20-23):
   - `data/features/tfidf_vectorizer.pkl` (Required)
   - `data/features/venue_statistics.pkl` (Optional but recommended)

3. **Performance Metrics** (from notebooks 30-31):
   - `reports/metrics/classification_results.csv` (Optional, for performance page)
   - `reports/metrics/regression_results.csv` (Optional, for performance page)

**To generate these files:**
```bash
# Run the feature engineering notebooks
jupyter notebook notebooks/20_feature_engineering_text.ipynb
jupyter notebook notebooks/21_feature_engineering_venue.ipynb
jupyter notebook notebooks/22_feature_engineering_author.ipynb
jupyter notebook notebooks/23_feature_engineering_final.ipynb

# Run the model training notebooks
jupyter notebook notebooks/30_classification_models.ipynb
jupyter notebook notebooks/31_regression_models.ipynb
```

## Running the App

```bash
# From project root
streamlit run app/main.py

# Or with specific configuration
streamlit run app/main.py --server.port 8501
```

## Configuration

Configure app settings in `config/config.yaml`:
- Port and host
- Theme and styling
- Model paths
- Feature names and descriptions

## Input Format

The app expects the following input fields:
- **Title**: Publication title
- **Abstract**: Publication abstract text
- **Authors**: List of authors with h-index and citation counts
- **Venue**: Publication venue name
- **Year**: Publication year
- **Field**: Research field/domain

## Output Format

Predictions include:
- **Classification**: High-impact (top 25%) or not
- **Confidence**: Probability of high-impact class
- **Regression**: Predicted citation count with confidence interval
- **Feature Contributions**: Top features driving the prediction
- **Similar Papers**: Similar historical papers for context

## Deployment

### Production deployment options:

1. **Streamlit Cloud** (Recommended):
   - Push your code to GitHub
   - Connect your repository to [Streamlit Cloud](https://streamlit.io/cloud)
   - Note: Model files need to be available (consider using Git LFS or external storage)

2. **Cloud Platforms (AWS/Azure/GCP)**:
   - Deploy using Streamlit on cloud VMs or container services
   - Use cloud storage for models (S3, Azure Blob, GCS)

3. **On-premise (AUB Servers)**:
   - Copy project to server
   - Install dependencies: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
   - Run with `streamlit run app/main.py --server.port 8501`

## Maintenance

- **Model Updates**: Replace model files in `models/` directory
- **Feature Updates**: Update feature engineering pipeline
- **UI Updates**: Modify Streamlit pages and components
- **Monitoring**: Track prediction requests and performance

## Notes

- Models are loaded once at startup for efficiency
- Predictions are cached for repeated queries
- File uploads are limited to prevent abuse
- Session state maintains user interactions

Commit message:

Remove batch prediction feature to simplify capstone scope
Removed the batch prediction page and updated documentation to focus on
single prediction functionality. This simplifies the application and
reduces unnecessary complexity for the capstone project demonstration.

Changes:
- Deleted app/pages/02_📁_Batch_Prediction.py (294 lines)
- Updated app/README.md to remove batch prediction references
- Updated PROJECT_STRUCTURE.md to reflect simplified app structure
- Kept predict_batch() method in prediction_service.py for future use

app/README.md, after:

# Streamlit Deployment App

This directory contains the Streamlit web application for the citation prediction tool.

## Purpose

Deploy trained models as an interactive web application that allows AUB to:
- Input new publication data
- Get citation predictions in real-time
- Visualize prediction confidence and model performance

## Files

- `main.py`: Main Streamlit application entry point (landing page)
- `pages/`: Multi-page app structure
  - `01_🎯_Single_Prediction.py`: Single prediction interface
  - `03_📈_Model_Performance.py`: Model metrics and evaluation

## Features

### 1. Single Publication Prediction
- Input publication metadata manually via form
- Get instant citation prediction (classification + regression)
- View confidence scores and prediction results
- See whether the paper is predicted to be high-impact (top 25%)

### 2. Model Performance
- Display model performance metrics
- View evaluation results from training
- Compare classification and regression models
- Understand model accuracy and limitations

## Prerequisites

Before running the app, you need to have trained models and feature artifacts:

1. **Trained Models** (from notebooks 30-31):
   - `models/classification/logistic_regression.pkl`
   - `models/classification/random_forest.pkl`
   - `models/classification/xgboost.pkl`
   - `models/classification/lightgbm.pkl`
   - `models/regression/random_forest.pkl`
   - `models/regression/xgboost.pkl`
   - `models/regression/lightgbm.pkl`

2. **Feature Artifacts** (from notebooks 20-23):
   - `data/features/tfidf_vectorizer.pkl` (Required)
   - `data/features/venue_statistics.pkl` (Optional but recommended)

3. **Performance Metrics** (from notebooks 30-31):
   - `reports/metrics/classification_results.csv` (Optional, for performance page)
   - `reports/metrics/regression_results.csv` (Optional, for performance page)

**To generate these files:**
```bash
# Run the feature engineering notebooks
jupyter notebook notebooks/20_feature_engineering_text.ipynb
jupyter notebook notebooks/21_feature_engineering_venue.ipynb
jupyter notebook notebooks/22_feature_engineering_author.ipynb
jupyter notebook notebooks/23_feature_engineering_final.ipynb

# Run the model training notebooks
jupyter notebook notebooks/30_classification_models.ipynb
jupyter notebook notebooks/31_regression_models.ipynb
```

## Running the App

```bash
# From project root
streamlit run app/main.py

# Or with specific configuration
streamlit run app/main.py --server.port 8501
```

## Configuration

Configure app settings in `config/config.yaml`:
- Port and host
- Theme and styling
- Model paths
- Feature names and descriptions

## Input Format

The app expects the following input fields:
- **Title**: Publication title
- **Abstract**: Publication abstract text
- **Authors**: List of authors with h-index and citation counts
- **Venue**: Publication venue name
- **Year**: Publication year
- **Field**: Research field/domain

## Output Format

Predictions include:
- **Classification**: High-impact (top 25%) or not
- **Confidence**: Probability of high-impact class
- **Regression**: Predicted citation count with confidence interval
- **Feature Contributions**: Top features driving the prediction
- **Similar Papers**: Similar historical papers for context

## Deployment

### Production deployment options:

1. **Streamlit Cloud** (Recommended):
   - Push your code to GitHub
   - Connect your repository to [Streamlit Cloud](https://streamlit.io/cloud)
   - Note: Model files need to be available (consider using Git LFS or external storage)

2. **Cloud Platforms (AWS/Azure/GCP)**:
   - Deploy using Streamlit on cloud VMs or container services
   - Use cloud storage for models (S3, Azure Blob, GCS)

3. **On-premise (AUB Servers)**:
   - Copy project to server
   - Install dependencies: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
   - Run with `streamlit run app/main.py --server.port 8501`

## Maintenance

- **Model Updates**: Replace model files in `models/` directory
- **Feature Updates**: Update feature engineering pipeline
- **UI Updates**: Modify Streamlit pages and components
- **Monitoring**: Track prediction requests and performance

## Notes

- Models are loaded once at startup for efficiency
- Predictions are cached for repeated queries
- File uploads are limited to prevent abuse
- Session state maintains user interactions
